---
layout: default
title: about
---

<h2 id="intro">About the author and this site.</h2>

<div class="post">
h1. The Author

Hi, I'm Brendon Murphy, but the site already told you that.  I go by the handle "xternal" at various spots over the internet.  It's a handle with no meaning; I picked it when I was in 6th grade and excited about BBS'ing.

In March of 2010 I joined "Kajabi":http://www.kajabi.com as a lead programmer.  We are a "Ruby on Rails":http://rubyonrails.com shop that targets the Internet Marketing niche, and plan to launch our SaaS platform soon.

I love programming.  Ruby is my favorite language these days, but, I enjoy learning and using others.  Additionally, in the past, I have professionally worked with C, Perl, Python, PHP, and shell scripting.  I've spent time getting my feet wet in Clojure, Erlang, and Haskell in recent years.  Clojure seems the most interesting, though, I'd like to look into Scala as well.  Obviously at my current job, CSS, HTML, and Javascript (mostly using jQuery) come in to play daily.

h1. The Site

I currently host the site using the services of the fine folks at <a href="http://heroku.com">heroku.com</a>.  They make rolling out, scaling, at working with Ruby on Rails apps a breeze.  Small applications are free to rollout, I highly recommend testing it out.

I've been through blogger, WordPress, "scanty":http://github.com/adamwiggins/scanty, and a host of other blog hosting & software services.  Often looking for something new to play with, while at the same time loving ruby and customizable systems, I've settled with the flexible "Jekyll":http://github.com/mojombo/jekyll site-generator for the time being.  After years of doing crazy things like writing draft posts locally and saving them, I realized that being able to edit in a local text editor and version posts in git is a dream.  Did I mention I love "git":http://git-scm.com/?

h1. Around the Net

* "GitHub":http://github.com/bemurphy - code
* "Twitter":http://www.twitter.com/xternal

h1. Contact

Feel free to email me.  I'm always trying to thwart spammers, so you can mail me initially at xternal1+blog at gmail.com.  Or, send me a message on "Twitter":http://twitter.com/xternal.  I'll get back to you as soon as I can!

</div>



