---
layout: post
title: Weekend wrap-up
wp-permalink: /wp/archives/2005/11/14/285/index.html
post_id: 285
---

Here's a quick rundown of my weekend.

**Friday night**
Oops, it's a blur to me.  I remember watching half of <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0060277">The Sword of Doom</a>.  The direction is awesome, I want to finish it today.  I remember thinking while watching the film, "It's weird, Kurosawa sure has a different technique in this film".  Oops again, he didn't direct it.  I've got to remember to tell my brother to watch it.  I think he'd appreciate the direction.  Oh hey, just remembered, I think I had dinner with my parents and grandmother who is in town.  Not sure if that was Thursday or Friday.

**Saturday day**
Went with Crista, my brother, parents, and grandparents to see my brother's <a href="http://www.artnet.com/Galleries/Artists_detail.asp?G=&gid=173223&which=&aid=12292&ViewArtistBy=online&rta=http://www.artnet.com/net/galleries/gallery_list.aspx?letter=H%26pagenum=1%26sorttype=abc%26gip=3%26viewtype=member_galleries">gallery show</a> at <a href="http://losangeles.citysearch.com/profile/35685797/santa_monica_ca/bergamot_station.html">Bergamot Station</a>.  Had a great lunch with the family, came home, and rested.  

**Saturday night**
Made a (hopefully) final run by Ikea, then entertained my parents and grandmother at my place for an hour or so.  Watched <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0038355">The Big Sleep</a> with Crista that night, and slept through some of it myself.  Bogart wasn't for me, I suppose.

**Sunday morning**
Went to Starbucks with Crista.  We had a great time playing <a href="http://www.cheapass.com/Merchant2/merchant.mvc?Screen=PROD&Store_Code=CAG&Product_Code=CAG517S">BRAWL: Catfight</a> from <a href="http://www.cheapass.com/">Cheapass Games</a> (had a great time playing it a lot this weekend, in fact).  Crista has bested me in total rankings so far.  I enjoyed our games because some ran to the very end, I'd be up with about 5 cards left, and bam, just get wasted.  Then we ran through Kohl's looking for a fedora like hat, to no avail.

**Sunday afternoon**
Crista had a show, and I wanted to chill, so I played a session of <a href="http://www.chaosium.com/">Call of Cthulhu</a> online for a few hours.  Had a great time.  Unfortunately didn't get my remaining items moved from the old place, so I'll need to complete that this week.
  
**Sunday night**
Crista and I watched <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0393162">Coach Carter</a>.  It was a well-intentioned and somewhat entertaining film, but, the cliches, predictability, and over acting kept it from being very good.  On a less critical note, one could probably make a drinking game out of this movie.  It would involve shots everytime one of the non-speaking basketball teammates appears onscreen.
