---
layout: post
title: What kind of water is that?
wp-permalink: /wp/archives/2005/04/27/243/index.html
post_id: 243
---

As <a href="http://www.techfreak.net/wp/index.php/archives/2005/04/27/241/">detailed earlier</a>, I decided tonight to purposely do something mildly uncomfortable in a fast food joint.  Well, I didn't make it to Taco Bell, however, I did stop by Carl's Jr.  Why?  Well, for starters, my parents hate Carl's.  Somehow I can stomach it, but I figured since my mom reads this, it would be mildly discomforting to divulge that I ate food that would make her instantly ill.

I wanted very badly to ask if they had any tofu on the menu.  Very badly, no joke.  But it felt like a bit much.  I did however notice they had Dannon (yes, the name is on the menu) bottled water.  So, I specifically asked what kind of water they sold, and could I please see it.  He seemed a little perplexed when I told him I just wanted to see it, not buy any.  He proceeded to treat me a bit, shall we say, special through the rest of the transaction.

All in all, it was funny, yet, strangely satisfying.  Yes, I can be freakish.

I've already decided on a future exercise, too.  This will be a bit rougher.  I'm going to pick up a somewhat troubling assortment of supplies at the local Albertsons.  I'm thinking of the following items:  some women's razors, a can of whipping cream, 1 cucumber, 1 banana, and some type of facial cosmetic.  Yes this seems perverse.  No, I have no actual perverse intentions in mind.
