---
layout: post
title: Blarg
wp-permalink: /wp/archives/2006/02/27/300/index.html
post_id: 300
categories: 
- Rambling
---

My weekend was good, despite not feeling all that hot.  I almost exclusively hung out with Crista, which was great.  Unfortunately, my throat has been feeling poorly, though it's a little better now.  I was also dead tired.  I think I fell asleep for two hours Saturday night.  Sunday, I just slept around the house all day.  Due to the excessive tiredness, we didn't get to go to Disneyland or church as planned.  

In the positive news, Crista and/or I did get to:
<ul>
<li>Watch <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0316356">Open Range</a> and <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0344510">A Very Long Engagement</a>.  Both very good films.</li>
<li>Crista bellydanced at Caspian Saturday night, and I got to watch.  It was very cool.  I think my favorite part was when she went out for tips and got to give a two minute lesson in dancing to a group of elementary school age girls.</li>
<li>We started a game of <a href="http://www.ramshead.indie-rpgs.com/">Universalis</a>.  It's fun but so so hard.  I think my creative-bone is broken.  Anyway, the story tenets are that it's a detective story set in modern day New York, and the homeless are disappearing, possibly as the result of some conspiracy.</li>
<li>I managed to browse Barnes & Noble twice.  Once alone and last night with Crista.  I love bookstores.  I picked up some manga for Crista, as she's always wanted to read one.  Uh, I think I picked a weird one.  I also got "<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0375751513">The Picture of Dorian Gray</a>" and Stephenson's "<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0060833165">Quicksilver</a>" for myself.</li>
</ul>